---
date: 2023-06-16
source: Reuters
title: Google warns own staff about chatbots
words: 688
---

# Google warns own staff about chatbots


> 援引知情人士消息称，谷歌母公司Alphabet正在向员工发出警告，提醒他们在使用“聊天机器人”时要谨慎，其中包括谷歌自家的Bard。与此同时，谷歌正在全球市场推广该程序。知情人士表示，谷歌已经建议员工不要将其机密材料输入到AI聊天机器人中，谷歌公司证实了这一点，并称这是其长期以来保护信息的政策。这些聊天机器人，其中包括Bard和ChatGPT，是使用所谓的生成式人工智能进行对话并回答各种提问的程序。人类评审员可能会阅读这些对话，研究人员发现类似的AI可以复制其在训练过程中吸收的数据，从而造成泄露风险。知情人士还表示，谷歌方面还提醒其工程师避免直接使用聊天机器人生成的计算机代码。


【Para.1】Alphabet Inc (GOOGL.O) is cautioning employees about how they use chatbots, including its own Bard, at the same time as it markets the program around the world, four people familiar with the matter told Reuters. The Google parent has advised employees not to enter its confidential materials into AI chatbots, the people said and the company confirmed, citing long-standing policy on safeguarding information.

【Para.2】The chatbots, among them Bard and ChatGPT, are human-sounding programs that use so-called ==generative== artificial intelligence to hold conversations with users and answer ==myriad== prompts. Human reviewers may read the chats, and researchers found that similar AI could reproduce the data it absorbed during training, creating a leak risk. Alphabet also alerted its engineers to avoid direct use of computer code that chatbots can generate, some of the people said.

- generative 生成式
- myriad 无数

【Para.3】Asked for comment, the company said Bard can make ==undesired== code suggestions, but it helps programmers ==nonetheless==. Google also said it aimed to be transparent about the limitations of its technology. The concerns show how Google wishes to avoid business harm from software it launched in competition with ChatGPT. **At stake in Google’s race against ChatGPT’s backers OpenAI and Microsoft Corp (MSFT.O) are billions of dollars of investment and still untold advertising and cloud revenue from new AI programs.** Google’s caution also reflects what’s becoming a security standard for corporations, namely to warn personnel about using publicly-available chat programs.

- undesired 不受欢迎的，不希望得到的
- nonetheless 尽管如此
- stake 竞争

【Para.4】A growing number of businesses around the world have set up guardrails on AI chatbots, among them Samsung (005930.KS), Amazon.com (AMZN.O) and Deutsche Bank (DBKGn.DE), the companies told Reuters. Apple (AAPL.O), which did not return requests for comment, reportedly has as well.

【Para.5】Some 43% of professionals were using ChatGPT or other AI tools as of January, often without telling their bosses, according to a survey of nearly 12,000 respondents including from top U.S.-based companies, done by the ==networking site== Fishbowl.

- networking site 社交网站

【Para.6】By February, Google told staff testing Bard before its launch not to give it internal information, Insider reported. Now Google is rolling out Bard to more than 180 countries and in 40 languages as a ==springboard== for creativity, and its warnings extend to its code suggestions. Google told Reuters it has had detailed conversations with Ireland's Data Protection Commission and is addressing regulators' questions, after a Politico report Tuesday that the company was postponing Bard's EU launch this week pending more information about the chatbot's impact on privacy.

- springboard 跳板

【Para.7】Such technology can draft emails, documents, even software itself, promising to vastly speed up tasks. Included in this content, however, can be misinformation, sensitive data or even copyrighted passages from a “Harry Potter” novel. A Google privacy notice updated on June 1 also states: "Don’t include confidential or sensitive information in your Bard conversations."

【Para.8】Some companies have developed software to address such concerns. For instance, Cloudflare (NET.N), which defends websites against cyberattacks and offers other cloud services, is marketing a capability for businesses to tag and restrict some data from flowing externally.

【Para.9】Google and Microsoft also are offering conversational tools to business customers that will come with a higher price tag but refrain from absorbing data into public AI models. The default setting in Bard and ChatGPT is to save users' conversation history, which users can opt to delete.

【Para.10】It "makes sense" that companies would not want their staff to use public chatbots for work, said Yusuf Mehdi, Microsoft's consumer chief marketing officer. "Companies are taking a duly conservative standpoint," said Mehdi, explaining how Microsoft's free Bing chatbot compares with its enterprise software. "There, our policies are much more strict."

【Para.11】Microsoft declined to comment on whether it has a blanket ban on staff entering confidential information into public AI programs, including its own, though a different executive there told Reuters he personally restricted his use. Matthew Prince, CEO of Cloudflare, said that typing confidential matters into chatbots was like "turning a bunch of PhD students loose in all of your private records."

