## 自我认知

### 兴趣爱好

> 兴趣爱好
提问：
What are your hobbies?
How do you spend your spare/leisure/free time? 
What do you usually do on weekends/during your university life?
追问：
What’s your favorite book? What kind of books do you like to read?
Do you like travelling? Please introduce one of the most impressive travel experiences.
What is your favorite sport? What kind of sports do you like most?
What kind of music do you like? What is your favorite music?

个人模板：

I like many sports, such as playing badminton and basketball and so on. Of all the sports, I like running most.

**Firstly**, running helps me build up my body and keep physical fitness. When I was young, my health wasn’t that good and I was very thin. My father worried about me a lot. One day, he took me to run at a park beside out home. From then，I fell in love with running，so I can keep my fit until now.

**Secondly**, running helps me reduce my pressure. When I feel sad, I usually run to release my pressure, the feeling after running could help me forget all sadness and worries. 

**Finally**, running also shapes my character, making me more energetic and persistent. Every time I almost reach my limit and feel exhausted during running, I never give up and stick to completing the whole round. 

And I apply this spirit to my study and my life in all aspects and I harvest a lot.

### 性格特征

> 性格提问
What’s your strength/advantage/greatest merit?（优点）
What’s your weakness/disadvantage/demerit/shortcoming?（缺点）
What’s your personality/character/characteristics?（优缺点）
What kind of person do you think you are?（优缺点）

个人模板：

==优点==：

**As far as I am concerned**, my greatest advantage is diligence and persistence, which contribute a lot to my study and life. 

**A typical example** of this is the process of preparing for postgraduate entrance examination. During my preparation for the postgraduate entrance examination, I have been isolated many times to my home, dormitory and hotel, which are not good learning environment. But But I've been doing my best to create the conditions to prepare for the examination.

**Through this case**, I find that diligence and persistence are the basic elements for success. I will carry forward these qualities in the future study and life.

I think these are my strengths.

==缺点==：

As the only child of my family, I think that my weakness is lacking communication with others. 

During my free time, I often surf on the internet at home, and therefore know much about many computer news and softwares. I want to share with others but I’m afraid to talk to others. 

When I went to university, I realized my problems, and then made great efforts to change this situation. In order to be an outgoing man, I tried many ways. For example, I begaan to took part in many social activities. Then I got chances to communicate with others. In addition, I also actively make friends with others, things have become better and better. 

If I have the chance to further study，I will stick to these methods to make more good friends in future. And I believe my ability in communication will be improved a lot. 

==性格特征（优缺点）==

As to my personality, I’d like to say that I am a person of diligence and persistence, which contributes a lot to my study and life.

**A typical example** of this is the process of preparing for postgraduate entrance examination. In order to achieve a high score, I started to make preparations in July, 2022. Before the exam, I had almost collected all of the reference books for this test. Then I did all the previous test papers. Afterwards I made careful analyses and find the correct ways. As last, I got the chance to be here today. 

**However**, every coin has two sides, I also have some weaknesses.my weakness is lacking communication with others. To get out of this habit, I started to take part in many social activities.. Now, I am getting better and better.

This is me, with both strengths and weaknesses. And I am also going to stick to my strengths and attempt to overcome weaknesses in the coming days.

### 家庭情况

> 家庭提问：
Could you please introduce your family?
What is the impact of your parents’ occupation on you？
What kind of person is your mother/father?
Who is the most influential one for you in your family?

==家庭情况==：

My family is not big, but very warm and harmonious. I have three family members: my father, mother, and I. 

My father works in a middle school as an Chinese teacher. He is diligent, responsible, and has positive attitude towards life, setting a very good example for me. Whenever I meet difficulties, he always stays by my side and encourages me to be strong. He always gives me some useful suggestions when I get confused. Therefore, he is my life guide. 

My mother is a housewife. She is kind, patient and thoughtful. She cooks and washes for us day after day and is the tie to keep our family together and harmonious. I think she is the greatest woman in this world. 

My family gives me a lot of help, both physically and mentally. I will try my best to live up to them and show much gratitude to them.

==印象最深的家人==：

Among my family members, my father influences me most. To some extent, thanks to him, I live in a warm and harmonious family.

My father works in a middle school as an teacher. He is diligent, responsible, and has positive attitude towards life, setting a very good example for me. Whenever I meet difficulties, he always stays by my side and encourages me to be strong. He always gives me some useful suggestions when I get confused. Therefore, he is my life guide. 

All his behaviors set good examples for me, and especially his diligence and responsibility influence me most.Without these qualities, I would not stand here and bring out the best in myself. 

In the future study and life, I will spare no effort to make progress. Only in this way can I pay back to his love.

### 学习实践

> 实践提问：
Please talk about your working/practice experience. 
What have you learned in your working/practical experience?
What’s the responsibility of your job? What problems have you encountered in work? 
Talk about your practical/professional/internship experience during college.
What activities have you participated in during college? 
What clubs have you joined in?

工作迁移：

感谢提问-毕业后一直准备考研，所以想分享一下在校的实践经历。

Thank you for your question. I think social practice is very important for an undergraduate. When I was a senior, I was invited to a innovation team and join the 'Innovation and entrepreneurship training program for college students'.

In the beginning, I was lack of experience of communaction and encountered many diffculties in communacating with teammates. But through our efforts, we achieved our goal in the last.

This experience has offered me a chance to strengthen my theoretical foundation. By this project, I have improved my communication skills and problem-solving abilities. What I have done has been praised by our teacher and other teams. 

So that is all, thank you.

### 大学情况

> 大学提问：
Please talk about your university life.
What activities have you participated in during college?
What scientific research have you done during college?//
Who is the most influential one for you in your university?
Who is your favorite professor/teacher in your university?//
Could you please introduce your university?

==大学生活==：

I would like to talk about my university life from two aspects. One is related to my courses and the other is about my practical activities.

**On one hand**, I have made great progress in academic development in my university. my overall GPA is 3.5, ranking top 10% in our department，and passed CET 4 and CET-6. Because of my hard work, I have gotten many rewards such as Outstanding Student, Competation Scholarship. 

**On the other hand**, practical experience is also crucial at university, In Feburary 2022, I completed a project related to the Internet of Things, which is a comprehensive project of IoT, deep learning, mobile application development and web develop, which offer me the ability of communicating with others and the ability of solving problems.

==印象最深的（大学）人==

He is one of my teachers at university, , who has impressed me so much. The reasons are as follows. 

**First of all**, she is very kindness. As we all know, in the College of Car Engineering, girls are very precious, especially those who are beautiful and fashionable.

**Second and the most important point** is that she is pretty knowledgeable and prudent in academic research. As an English teacher, she is a big fan of Shakespeare. She could recite all Shakespeare’s sonnets, those beautiful and romantic poems, and has done a lot of researches. With her help, I have learned a lot, not only about English culture but also how to do research.

**In addition**, she is quite strict with us during the final exam. We have to prepare for the exam with full concentration. Therefore, the knowledge she taught has been still fresh in my mind. 

All these things considered, Miss. 常 is that person who has impressed me most.

==介绍大学==：

I studied in Shandong 交通 University. My university is very big and comprehensive. It has a great influence on my study and life. 

My university has three campuses with a floor space over 600,000 square-meters. However, its greatness is not only reflected in its occupied areas but also profound culture, such as the motto of “To be a practical talent with ideal and knowledge”. 

It possesses many excellent students and amiable faculty. I would like to give you an example. my teachers MissCHANG impressed me so much，she is pretty knowledgeable and prudent in academic research. With her help, I have learned a lot, not only about English culture but also how to do research.

Studying here, I have had a comprehensive development.

### 各大城市

> 城市提问：
Please make a brief introduction to your hometown.
Where are you from?//
Please talk about the city of your university.
How do you like the city of your university?//
What is your impression about the city of our university?
Do you like the city Jinan?//

==家乡或本科城市==：

I am from Qufu, a historical city in Shandong Province. My hometown is a city with charming scenery and long history. 

The most beautiful scenery is the Shimen Mountain National Forest Park, which is famous for its two towering mountains.

Besides attractive landscape, my hometown is best-known as a Chinese traditional cultural site. Thousands of tourists come here to visit the Temple and Cemetery of Confucius, and the Kong Family Mansion, which has together recognized as a national 5A level scenic spot.

Qufu can be regarded as the origin of Confucian culture. Under the influence of Confucianism, we are always sticking to many principles in daily life. For example, “If you don’t want it, please don’t give it to others.” So, people in Qufu are very polite and warm-hearted to others.

This is my hometown. I am proud of it and I believe its future to come will be even better.

==本科城市==：

As I have mentioned in my self-introduction, I studied at SDJT University, located in JINAN, the capital city of SD Province. 

The most beautiful scenery is the quancheng square,baotu spring, daming lake and so on.

Besides attractive landscape, my hometown is best-known as a Chinese traditional cultural site. Thousands of tourists come here to visit the Qianfo mountain, the home remains LQZ and XQJ. They left precious poem for us, I admire the poem of XQJ most, because his love for country inspired me a lot.so people there are no exception. If you are in trouble, they will always come to help you as soon as possible.

Studying in such a beneficial environment, I also develop a spirit of honesty, diligence and earnestness.

So welcome to Jinan and my university!

==报考城市==：

Thank you for your question. I really love the city, nanjing.

**Before I came here**, I had just known that it is a beautiful city. I really love all kinds of huaiyang food. After searching information online, I’ve found that this city is not only famous for its beautiful scenery and delicious food, but also for its business and education. So I really want to come to NJ and have a chance to see it with my own eyes. 

**When I came here for the first time**, I was deeply impressed by the cultural and academic atmosphere. I have visited many historical sites such as May 4th Square. Besides, its environment is also very clean and beautiful. Especially, the air quality here is really wonderful, and it’s quite easy to travel around NJ by subway and buses. As a result, it will bring more opportunities to employment. 

So I love this city and I want to study and live in NJ.


## 考研认知

### 考研动机

> Why do you want to be a postgraduate student ?
Why do you choose our university?
What do you know about our university?

Thanks for your question，there are several reasons why I choosed to further study/ your university.

**First of all**, I am really fond of my major, and I have gained a comprehensive knowledge on my field after four years’ study. However, the more I have learned, the clearer I become to realize that I still lack some certain knowledge concerning my major, so I decide to further my study during the post-graduate period. 

**In addition**, this university is very popular and enjoys great reputation in this field. The professors here are prestigious and knowledgeable. Studying here gives me a valuable chance to communicate with many outstanding scholars, and participate in various activities, which will largely broaden my horizon. 

**What’s more**, this university is the one I missed four years ago. During my college time, I have worked hard to come into this university and achieve my dream.

**Finally**, the university is close to my hometown. So I can go home by high-speed train when I miss my parents, I think it is my duty to accompany them in the future.

### 读研规划

> What is your plan for your postgraduate study?

In the three years’ postgraduate study in this university, if I am admitted, I will make efforts to study the knowledge of my major and skills concerned and try to learn more interpersonal skills at the same time.

During my **first year**, I will devote all my time to the major, English Literature, including putting full concentration on lectures, taking active parts in academic activities and reading literature works in my leisure time.

When I step into the **second year**, the most important thing for me is to prepare for my thesis. I will read a lot of professional books and surf the Internet to look up various relevant materials. After collecting all the data, I will get down to writing my paper.

In the **third year**, apart from writing and revising my thesis under the guidance of my supervisor, I plan to do some part-time jobs to improve my practical skills.

This is my clear plan during my postgraduate study if I am luckily admitted to your esteemed university.

### 研后规划（读博）

> What do you want to do after graduation?
What is your plan for the next few years?

After my graduation, I plan to further my study for a doctor’s degree and make good use of the theories I will have learned my postgraduate study. The chief reasons why I want to apply for a doctor’s degree after graduation are as follows.

**To begin with,** I have profound interest in … After learning it, I have been increasingly interested in this major. And I also hope that I can take a further step and build up a systematic view and unique comprehension of … through doctoral study.

**In addition,** I have always dreamed of being a teacher and lecturer in the future, because this career can offer me the opportunity of mastering more knowledge and share it with my students. 

**Thirdly**, I have a passion for academic research. I have assisted my teacher in conducting three projects in university. During that process, I have found great pleasure.

Considering the three reasons, I am planning to pursue further study after graduation, so to achieve this goal, I must make the utmost of the three years of postgraduate. 


## 热点问题万能模版

**定位——分析影响——分析原因——列举措施**

==定位==：

OK, Sir,Thanks for your question, As far as I am concerned, The topic of …（重复考官问题） … gradually becomes a hot topic， 

==影响==：

①（单纯好/坏） I think it has caused great benefits/influence/disadvantages to our life.

②(有好/有坏） However, Every coin has its two sides, so does this event. It caused both positive and negative influence on our life.（主要讲正/负面影响 But its positive/negative influence over its negative/positive aspects. ）

==原因==

There are several reasons that can explain this. 
First of all, It’s largely because ....  
The second and the most important thing is ……

==（措施： 个人、 政府、 企业） ==

So gradually, I get the idea that it is high time for us to strengthen our awareness in this aspect and take some effective measures to deal with it. For example, everyone should do right things with right value. 

Besides, things should be done step by step by our government. 

Last but not least——the company/media is supposed to take more social responsibilities to encourage people to do more actions.

That's all, thank you for your attention.