---
date: 2023-06-21
source: Reuters
title: Who is on the missing Titanic sub?
words: 561
---

# Who is on the missing Titanic ==sub==?

- sub 潜艇

背景：

当地时间18日上午，一艘载有5人的潜水器在“泰坦尼克号”沉船区域失踪。美国海岸警卫队19日证实了这一消息，并表示正在进行搜救工作。该观光潜水器名为“泰坦”，在18日早晨下潜1小时45分钟后失联。通常情况下，需要两个半小时才能到达“泰坦尼克”号所在的海底区域。据美联社报道，美国海岸警卫队表示，潜水器内有一名驾驶员和四名付费乘客。潜水器内成员将轮流操作设备并执行其他任务。《纽约时报》披露了其中两名乘客的身份，分别为英国富商哈米什·哈丁以及法国“泰坦尼克”号专家保罗•亨利•吉欧雷特。

【Para.1】A five-person ==submersible== vessel taking wealthy adventurers on a $250,000 trip to see the ==wreckage== of the 1912 Titanic disaster 12,500 feet (3,800m) undersea is missing in the Atlantic off Canada.

- submersible 能潜水的
- wreckage 残骸

【Para.2】HAMISH HARDING. The British billionaire and ==chairman== of ==aviation consultancy== Action Aviation is among those missing, according to his stepson. Dubai-based Harding had posted on social media that he was proud to be heading to the Titanic as a "mission specialist", adding: "Due to the worst winter in Newfoundland in 40 years, this mission is likely to be the first and only manned mission to the Titanic in 2023. A weather window has just opened up and we are going to attempt a dive tomorrow."

- chairman 董事长
- aviation consultancy 航空咨询公司
- 

【Para.3】In 2016, Harding accompanied former astronaut Buzz Aldrin to the South Pole, when Aldrin became the oldest person ever to reach the Antarctic region, at 86. Harding was also on board the 2019 "One More Orbit" flight mission that set a record for the fastest circumnavigation of earth by aircraft over both geographic poles.

【Para.4】SHAHZADA DAWOOD and his son SULEMAN. Their family have confirmed they are on board. Shahzada is vice chairman of one of Pakistan's largest conglomerates, Engro Corporation, with investments in fertilisers, vehicle manufacturing, energy and digital technologies. According to the website of SETI, a California-based research institute of which he is a trustee, he lives in Britain with his wife and two children.

【Para.5】PAUL-HENRI NARGEOLET. The 77-year-old French explorer, whom media say is one of the five on board, is director of underwater research at a company that owns the rights to the Titanic wreck. A former commander in the French Navy, he was both a deep diver and a mine sweeper. After retiring from the navy, he led the first recovery expedition to the Titanic in 1987 and is a leading authority on the wreck site. In a 2020 interview with France Bleu radio, he spoke of the dangers of deep diving, saying: "I am not afraid to die, I think it will happen one day.”

【Para.6】STOCKTON RUSH. The founder and CEO of the vessel's U.S.-based operating company OceanGate is also on the submersible, according to media reports. "It is an amazingly beautiful wreck," Rush told Britain's Sky news of the Titanic earlier this year. "You can see inside, we dipped down and saw the grand staircase and saw some of the chandeliers still hanging.”

【Para.7】According to his biography on OceanGate's website, Rush became the youngest jet transport-rated pilot in the world in 1981 at the age of 19.

【Para.8】What's the firm behind this?

Based in Everett in Washington State, OceanGate says it uses next generation crewed submersibles and launch platforms to increase deep ocean access as far as 4,000 metres. OceanGate has successfully completed over 14 expeditions and over 200 dives in the Pacific, Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico," its website says. "Following every mission, the team evaluates and updates the procedures as part of a continued commitment to evolve and ensure operational safety."

【Para.9】What is the vessel?

Although popularly called a submarine, in marine terminology the "Titan" vessel carrying the five is a submersible. While a submarine can launch itself from a port independently, a submersible goes down off a support ship.